AIM AND OBJECTIVE OF THE SOCIETY:
a) The Society will encourage resources and experimental centers for the purpose of development of Animal Wealth for the country by setting up and acquiring such center where deemed necessary.
b) The society will seek of prevent exploitation of cruelty to the Animal by enforcement of the provisions of the prevention of cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 and the rules framed there under by the Government as well as by other authorities from time to time.
c) The society will undertake to investigate and give publicity to such qualities and aspects of the Animal Wealth for which it is an object of regard and reference.
d) The Society will encourage scientific investigation in the usefulness of milk, cord, cheese, ghee derives from the cow and into the benefits available from the expressions of the cattle, society will seek means to enhance the beneficial aspects of these products. The society will set-up gosal as and gosambardhana where necessary and will co-operate with and assist such existing institutions. The society will endeavor to during about structural changes to promote efficient functioning of such institutions.
e) The Society will organize seminars, conference workshop disseminate ideas and conclusions regarding the preservation, protection, awareness of different programme by state & center
f) To promote and conduct activities of literary, awareness, scientific, cultural, youth affairs adventures programme social religious and charitable nature and to conduct research in such fields.
g) Establishment and maintenance of libraries and reading rooms for general use among the members and to assists in research and development of cattle wealth, Scientific agriculture & Tribal Culture
h) To establish, maintain, manage or render assistance to orphanages, rescue homes, Adopt anomic back ward childer in agency area working women's hostels homes for widows jaranivas, child Labour training/Rehability centre in any caste and religion.
i) To establish the centers for the knowledge and preach ethnically and spiritual principles among the political and non-political bodies/organisation.
j) To arrange Tour programmes heritage, historical place scenrious& mythically of dedicated religious and social conference, satsangs, Bhagabat tungies competitions or other suitable programmes.
k) To affiliate, Co-operate with and help to manage associations or societies having similar objectives.